---
layout: post
title: Why Bloc?
---


Okay so back in the fall of 2016, I decided that learning to code on my own was not working out for me. I needed more structure and a curriculum to keep me motivated. So I started the search. The first thing I did was look at what were the important aspects of a coding bootcamp, I searched online and read through several guides the most helpful being the following:

[ Hard-Hitting Coding
Bootcamp Questions to Ask](https://www.thefirehoseproject.com/definitive-guide/7) 

This guide really helped me understand the questions I should be asking and forced me to sit down and list what was important to me in terms of what a bootcamp could offer. After a lot of thought and self-reflection I decided on the following

* Face time with instructors
* instructor availability outside of class
* cost
* job guarantee

Face time with instructors and instructor availability outside of class was important to me, because I had learned in university that I am very much a kinesthetic learner (meaning I learn by doing) and often times during lecture I would have a hard time making a connection between the material and its applications. Most of my university career was spent in my professor’s office hours because I found that one on one Q & A was much better for my learning style because I could walk through problems with my professors. Cost was also a huge factor. I went to a private university for school and although I think it was worth every penny it still left me with student loans that I could not defer due to coding camp. I also had a good paying job so going to a full-time coding camp would not only mean paying for the course but also loss of wages. Given that I had student loans to pay, the prospect of paying $20,000 in tuition for some of the well-known camps and then paying cost of living in a city like San Fran and on top of all that losing months’ worth of wages? Not my cup of tea. Lastly, I wanted to make sure that the coding camp I went to had a job guarantee policy of some sort so that I would feel that the camp was invested in my success and not just trying to pass students through and make profit off them. After a lot research and several discussions with friends and family I decided on Bloc.
Bloc allows the flexibility to be part-time, so I have been able to keep my full-time job, is low cost relative to other camps, has a job guarantee, and most importantly the mentor system allows for you to have a lot of time with a knowledgeable person who can help you through your coding journey (without you having to compete with other students for time during sessions). The one mentor one student approach makes it so that the learning fits your style.  I started the bloc web-developer track on February 13th 2017 and so far I feel like I made the best choice for me and my situation.

